---
layout: post
title: Billboard 100 Exploration
---
I recently looked into a dataset which lists all songs that made the Billboard Top 100 list in the year 2000.  The data
tracks each song from the date it entered up to 76 weeks afterwards (although no songs made it past 65 weeks).

The dataset is very healthy.  There are no missing values and the data doesn't appear corrupted in any way.  It does lack in metrics we want to use and explore, however, we are able to derive some of these datapoints from what we do have.

What I've looked into so far is how long songs take to reach their peak ranking and whether songs that reach the number 1 spot tend to debut at a certain time of year?

Looking into the number of days between a song's debut we find that most of the time the higher a song's top rank on the billboard 100, the longer it takes to reach it's peak.  For example, most songs that reach the top 10 take at least 50 days to get there. The speed to peak is especially apparent between songs that peak below the Top 50 vs songs that peak within the Top 10.

The following plot shows the distributions of Days to Peak for all songs in 2000, Songs that reached the top 10, and songs that didn't break the top 50.
<Need to get chart in here>


The next thing we looked at was seasonality.  I was curious if there's an ideal time of year to debut on the list.  It turned out that in 2000 songs that most songs to reach the #1 spot on billboard 100 debuted in the spring.

<Need to get charts in here>
